# The American Shad (_Alosa sapidissima_) Genome Project
### Understanding the evolutionary novelties of the “fish that fed the Nation’s founders”
_Background_  
The American shad (_Alosa sapidissima_) is an anadromous fish distributed throughout the North American Atlantic coast, and prior to the 20th century, was one of the largest and most economically important fisheries in the U.S.  Adults spend most of their life at sea, and return in the spring to their natal streams to spawn.  This migratory behavior, like that of salmonids, is of particular interest to sensory biologists as the exact environmental cues employed to navigate to their natal areas remains unclear.  It has been demonstrated in salmonids that the geomagnetic field can be used to navigate, but whether or not shad utilize the same method is unknown.  American shad also have evolved several other unique features of interest to sensory biologists.  First, unlike most fish, shad lack a distinct lateral line (a critical electrophysiological and mechanosensory ‘organ’).  Second, shad can hear ultrasonic sounds up to 180 kHz (compared with 20 kHz in humans), one of the highest frequency ranges of any organism ever recorded and speculated to be a defense against cetacean echolocation (~40 – 150 kHz).  Despite the unique sensory features of American shad, very little research has focused on this species.  One reason is the lack of genetic and genomic resources available.  Not only will genomic resources facilitate evolutionary and functional studies of these unique sensory capabilities, but provide additional genetic resources to the wild fisheries managers to benefit the conservation and management of this important local resource.  
_Funding_  
This genome sequencing project is courtesy of an award from the [The Sequencing and Genomic Technologies Shared Resource](https://genome.duke.edu) at the Duke Center for Genomic and Computational Biology (Duke University).  
